PD-1503 / 25.04 / PD-1503 Create Plex App Tutorial (#3261)
truenas/documentation: content/TruenasApps/StableApps/PlexApp.md

---
title: "Plex"
description: "Provides installation instructions to configure and deploy the Plex app in TrueNAS."
weight:
aliases:
tags:
- apps
- media

> keywords:
> - nas data storage
> - software storage solutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords:
- nas data storage
- software storage solutions
- TrueNAS media applications
```

---

> Plex is a media server that allows you to stream your media (music, movies, live TV, etc.) to any Plex client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plex is a media server that allows you to manage and stream your media (music, movies, live TV, etc.) to any Plex client.
```

{{< include file="/static/includes/AppsUnversioned.md" >}}

## Before You Begin
Before you install the Plex app:

* Set up a Plex account.

>   After installing the Plex app and logging into Plex through the link in TrueNAS, if you have not already configured your Plex account media server, Plex shows the configuration screens to set up the media server, add libraries, and customize your Plext account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  After installing the Plex app and logging into Plex through the link in TrueNAS, if you have not already configured your Plex account media server, Plex shows the configuration screens to set up the media server, add libraries, and customize your Plex account.
```

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsStableBeforeYouBegin.md" >}}

* Go to **Datasets**, and select the pool or dataset where you want to add the Plex datasets.
  For example, */tank/apps/plex* or */tank/plex*.
  You can use either an existing pool or [create a new one]({{< relref "CreatePoolWizard.md" >}})

  Create the two datasets Plex uses for storage volumes:
  * **data** for user media data storage
  * **config** for Plex application configuration storage.

  You can create a dataset for log data or use a temporary directory option for log data.

>   Transcode data is not useful or meant for persistent storage, so using a temporary directory option is a better option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Transcode data is not useful or meant for persistent storage, so using a temporary directory is a better option.
```

>   When creating the above datasets select the **apps** dataset preset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When creating the above datasets, select the **apps** dataset preset.
```

>   You can set up the ACLs for these datasets after adding them or use the app installation wizard to configure the ACLs and ACL entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can set up the permissions (ACLs) for these datasets after adding them or use the app installation wizard to update the existing ACLs.
```

Author: This is not really correct, you can add the permissions in the wizard. I'll adjust this sentence for better clarity.

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/LocateAndOpenInstallWizard.md" >}}

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexScreen.png" alt="Install Plex Screen" id="Install Plex Screen" >}}

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsWizardAppNameAndVersion.md" >}}

Next, enter the **Plex Configuration** settings.
For a basic installation, you can accept the default values.

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsInstallWizardTimezoneSetting.md" >}}

While logged into your Plex account, go to the [Plex **Claim Code** web page](https://www.plex.tv/claim/) to copy the **Claim Code** string provided by Plex, and then paste it into the TrueNAS **Install Plex** wizard **Claim Token** field. This authentication token provides TrueNAS access to your Plex account.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexConfig1.png" alt="Plex Configuration Settings" id="Plex Configuration Settings" >}}

Next, either accept the default values shown or enter the IP addresses for local network connections (Ethernet or WiFi routers) you want in your Plex network.
See [Setting Up Local Network](#setting-up-local-network) below for more information.

> You can add devices and/or additional environment variables but these are not necessary to deploy the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add devices and/or additional environment variables, but these are not necessary to deploy the app.
```

> For more information see [Adding Devices](#adding-devicess) below for more information on adding these.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on adding these, see [Adding Devices](#adding-devicess) below.
```

Accept the default values in both **User and Group Configuration** and **Network Configurations**.
(Optional) If you created a new user to administer apps, enter that user ID in the user and group fields.

> See [User and Group Configuration](#user-and-group-configuration) and [Network Configuration](#network-configuration) below for more information on these settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [User and Group Configuration](#user-and-group-configuration) and [Network Configuration](#network-configuration) for more details.
```

Add your **Storage Configuration** settings.
{{< expand "Configuring Plex Storage" "v" >}}
Set **Host Path (Path that already exists on the system)** in **Type** for **Plex Data Storage**.
Select **Enable ACL**, and then either enter or browse to and select the **data** dataset to populate the **Host Path** field.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexStorageConfigDataACLandACE.png" alt="Add Plex Data Storage" id="Add Plex Data Storage" >}}

Select **Add** to the right of **ACL Entries** for each user or group entry you want to add.

> or example, add the **568** user and **0**, and give each **FULL_CONTROL Access**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, add the **568** user and **0**, and give each **FULL_CONTROL Access**.
```

Select **Force Flag**.

> Repeat the storage steps above for the **Plex Configuration** and, if using a dataset for logs, for the **Plex Logs** storage volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat the storage steps above for the **Plex Configuration** and, when using a dataset for logs, for the **Plex Logs** storage volumes.
```

> Create a dataset for log storage if you want to save and easily access log data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a dataset for log storage to save and easily access log data.
```

If not, set the storage volume type to either **temporary** or **tmpfs** for both **Logs** and **Transcode** storage.
{{< /expand >}}

> Add any labels you want to use to group or organize your media files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add any labels you want to use to organize your media files.
```

For example, labeling video files as *movies* or *sports*, etc. Labels allow creating custom groupings or classifications beyond the default metadata provided by Plex.

> Accept the defaults in **Resources Configuration**, and select the GPU option if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accept the defaults in **Resources Configuration** and select the GPU option if you have a compatible GPU installed in the system and you want to use it for hardware-accelerated transcoding.
```

Click **Install**. A progress dialog opens before switching to the **Installed** applications screen.
The **Installed** screen shows the **plex** app in the **Deploying** state until fully installed and then the status changes to **Running** when ready to use.

Click **Web Portal** on the **Application Info** widget to open the Plex web portal sign-in screen.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/PlexAppWebPortalSignInScreen.png" alt="Plex Sign In Screen" id="Plex Sign In Screen" >}}

> After signing in, Plex steps you through several initial media server configuration screens if this is a new account, or shows your default Plex media screen for your existing configured account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After signing in, Plex guides you through several initial media server configuration screens if this is a new account or shows your default Plex media screen for your existing configured account.
```

## Understanding App Installation Wizard Settings

> The following section provides more detailed explanations of the settings in each section of the **Install** installation wizard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section provides more detailed explanations of the settings in each section of the **Install** wizard.
```

### Application Name Settings

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsWizardAppNameAndVersion.md" >}}

### Plex Configuration Settings
Plex configuration settings include setting up the server timezone, authentication to the Plex account, location of the Plex container image, local network settings, and adding devices or additional environment variables to apply to the container.

> {{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexConfig1.png" alt="Instll Plex Configuration Settings" id="Install Plex Configuration Settings" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexConfig1.png" alt="Install Plex Configuration Settings" id="Install Plex Configuration Settings" >}}
```

Either accept the default values or enter the IP addresses for local network connections (Ethernet or WiFi routers) you want in your Plex local network.
These addresses define how Plex interacts with devices and services on your network and can optimize how your Plex media server communicates with devices in your home.

Specified addresses are considered to be on the local network when enforcing bandwidth restrictions.
If left blank, only the subnet for the server is considered to be on your local network.
When the host network is not enabled, the server subnet is the network for Docker.
Therefore, all connections from other clients are considered to be on the external network.
If set, all other IP addresses are considered to be external to your local network.

#### Adding Devices
Plex allows you to add and manage devices allowed to access your media server through the local network and remotely from external network connections.
Click **Add** to the right of **Devices** in the **Install Plex** wizard for each device to add.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexConfigAddDevice.png" alt="Install Plex Add Device" id="Install Plex Add Device" >}}

> Enter the name of the device in the **Host Device** and in the **Container Device** fields. For example, device */dev/dvb*.

Reviewer: Something seems off about the description here - is this about passing system devices directly through to the container or about permissions for clients to access the Plex server over the network?

### User and Group Configuration

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexUserAndGroupConfig.png" alt="Plex User and Group Configuration Settings" id="Plex User and Group Configuration Settings" >}}

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppInstallWizardUserAndGroupConfig.md" >}}

The run-as user information is found on the Plex app details screen in the **Run-As Content** widget.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/PlexDetailsScreen.png" alt="Plex App Details Screen" id="Plex App Details Screen" >}}

### Network Configuration
The default web port for Plex is **32400**.

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppInstallWizardNetworkConfig.md" >}}

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsInstallWizardAdvancedDNSSettings.md" >}}

### Storage Configuration
TrueNAS provides options for data and configuration storage volumes: ixVolumes and host paths.
Logs and transcode data can use these same storage options or you can create directories to hold log and/or transcode data.

> Both logs and transcode data is not intended for persistent data storage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both logs and transcode data are not intended for persistent data storage. 
```

Logs and transcode data can be stored in the **temporary** directory option that creates a Docker volume in the hidden **ix-apps** dataset.

> This directory is cleaned up on every container restart, which means the data is only available for the period before the container restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory is cleaned up on every container restart, which means the data exists only during the container's current session.
```

Author: NO possessive case!

> Transcode data chunks are streamed to a player and meant to be throw-away data after it is streamed, like data on a scratchpad, this makes the **tmpfs** directory option a better choice as it creates a Linux temporary filesystem type in RAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transcode data chunks are streamed to a player and meant to be discarded after use, like notes on a scratchpad. This makes the **tmpfs** directory option a better choice as it creates a Linux temporary filesystem type in RAM.
```

#### Mounting an SMB Share
TrueNAS **Additional Storage** options include the ability to mount an SMB share inside the container pod.

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppWizardStorageSMBOption.md" >}}

### Resource Configuration

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/InstallPlexResourcesConfiguration.png" alt="Resources Configuration Settings" id="Resources Configuration Settings" >}}

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppInstallWizardResourceConfig.md" >}}
{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsInstallWizardGPUPassthrough.md" >}}

## Troubleshooting Tips
Before editing Plex app settings, first stop the app, and then edit settings. After saving changes, restart the app.

Refer to the Plex support website and documentation for assistance with your Plex media server issues.

### App Sticks in Deploying State
You must get a claim token from Plex and add it to the app or Plex does not deploy. If your app is not deploying, try obtaining a fresh claim token from Plex. Stop the Plex app, then edit the TrueNAS Plex app settings to paste the new token into the **Claim Token** field. Save the change. Restart the app.

> If the app still does not start, try clearing your screen cache which sometimes prevents showing the app as fully deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the app still does not start, try clearing your screen cache. This can sometimes prevent showing the app as fully deployed.
```

### Plex App NVIDIA GPU Driver Issues
If Plex reports issues with drivers you might have to delete the app and recreate a fresh app container using the same datasets.
Also, check **Apps > Configuration > Settings** to make sure the NVIDIA driver option is selected.

> Search the TrueNAS forum for Plex discussion threads for other tips and suggestions.

Reviewer: Make "TrueNAS forum" a link.
```suggestion
Search the TrueNAS forum for Plex discussion threads for other tips and suggestions.
```

weight:
aliases:
tags:
- apps
- media
keywords:
- nas data storage
- software storage solutions
- TrueNAS media applications
---

Plex is a media server that allows you to manage and stream your media (music, movies, live TV, etc.) to any Plex client.

{{< include file="/static/includes/AppsUnversioned.md" >}}

## Before You Begin
Before you install the Plex app:

* Set up a Plex account.

  After installing the Plex app and logging into Plex through the link in TrueNAS, if you have not already configured your Plex account media server, Plex shows the configuration screens to set up the media server, add libraries, and customize your Plex account.

{{< include file="/static/includes/apps/AppsStableBeforeYouBegin.md" >}}

* Go to **Datasets**, and select the pool or dataset where you want to add the Plex datasets.
  For example, */tank/apps/plex* or */tank/plex*.
  You can use either an existing pool or [create a new one]({{< relref "CreatePoolWizard.md" >}})

  Create the two datasets Plex uses for storage volumes:
  * **data** for user media data storage
  * **config** for Plex application configuration storage.

> 

Author: This is not an ordered list or step procedure instruction, just a list of the datasets to create.
